Surrender, Sir! - An Arma 3 Script
=====================

## Introduction
Surrender, Sir! is a very simple script for Arma 3 that will allow players to ask A.I. units to surrender or, in the case of civilians, get down on the floor. 

## Updates
### 06/29/2013 v0.02
The basic functionality of Surrender, Sir! has been put in place. You can currently put the scripts in your mission directory and call the main script with *nul=[player,surrenderSide,distance,surrenderType] execVM "surrenderSir.sqf"*. This would be called in a player unit's initialization field or, you could likely put it anywhere else as long as you have access to the player unit's name. There are some basic parameters that can be altered to change the way the script functions. *surrenderSide* is where you choose which side is given the option to surrender. The valid entries for this are "ENEMYSURRENDER", for only enemies that are hostile to the player unit; "CIVSURRENDER", for civilians only; and "ALLSURRENDER", for civilians and enemies. *distance* is the next parameter that can be altered and it allows you to decide how close or far (in meters) the player unit has to be from another unit in order to ask it to surrender. It should be noted that this should be thought of as that player's 'shouting distance' - how far that player's voice can be heard by the A.I. units that are being asked to surrender. Any A.I. units that are near enough to hear the player ask another A.I. unit to surrender will also surrender. This is provided that they are hostile to the player or are in the same group as the A.I. unit that was asked to surrender.

Currently, the function to have A.I. units lay down on the floor as another form of surrender has been implemented but there seems to be some problems in getting them to always stay down or to actually listen to the player in the first place. For these reasons, this is not currently an accessible feature that can be defined through the parameters of the script call. You may notice that there is a fourth parameter, though - *surrenderType*. This is not implemented in the actual code yet, but it will eventually be the variable that determines the behavior of A.I. units when being asked to surrender.

I will next be focusing on having the 'get down' version of surrendering working. After that is in place, I will implement a chance percentage that determines whether or not the A.I surrenders. This will lead the way for being able to alter the behavior of the A.I. with the surrenderType parameter likely preceded by a simple chance-to-surrender parameter. There are also plenty of other little features that I will tackle as the opportunity presents itself. For example, the 'shouting' mechanic currently works pretty well but it runs a check on all units in the mission every time a unit is asked to surrender so this may cause performance issues with larger missions - I am not actually sure. I know of a different way to implement it but I am currently trying to get the all of the basic features in first.

## Concepts (OLD)
The script is still in the initial stages of development. The following are a concepts outlining how the script could work.
* Initially, the main task would be to get the script to simply have an enemy put his hands above his head or a civilian to go prone and not move when the player asks them to. This is very simple and would be quickly expanded with some more interesting features. Giving enemies a chance percentage to surrender or continue engaging the player would be one of the first things to add as it would randomize the gameplay experience and allow for mission replayability. Eventually, adding a variety of random possible behaviors for the unit to follow - such as surrendering immediately, running away, pretending to put weapon away and then taking it out again, etc. - would be a very good feature.
* Ideally, the script would be dynamic in that it would be able to recognize any and all units a player encounters, identify them as an enemy or civilian by itself, and then add the action to ask those units to surrender if the player is within a certain distance from those units. Functionally, this would require minimal work on the mission designer's part - they would only need to call the script in their init.sqf file or in a player unit's initialization field. The rest of the work would be done already.
* Likely the simplest and quickest way to create the script would be to have it so that a call to the script would be placed in the initialization field of units that can be asked to surrender. A benefit of this method would be that the mission designer can decide which units, specifically, will or will not surrender. It would also only require very simple code to get working. Given that each unit would call the script individually, the parameters of each unit's behavior could be changed should such funtionality be added. The problem with this method of implementation is that adding the surrender action to a large number of units could become tedious. Arguably, though, you could simply group units together and have it so that calling the script in the group leader's initialization field will be enough to add the surrender action to everyone in the group. 
* Something that might be out of the scope of the project (at least intially) but that is related is to have the script be able to recognize when a unit has surrendered and return that value in some form. This would allow for all sorts of things such as being able to give a ruleset to players where they cannot use excessive force e.g. shooting surrendered units would be penalized. This would also allow for something like a task that requires you to make a certain unit surrender. 